---
layout: post
title: "A New TEAM(S)"
quote: Modernizing the gradebook.
image: /blog/media/2014-10-12-a-new-team/header.jpg
video: false
---

#Since last time
The last few weeks we took a break from GameHost. Instead, we decided to work on something, frankly, more applicable to high school students than GameHost has been so far. What I am referring to is a product called QuickHac [QuickHac](http://quickhac.com/). This innovative gradebook system, a replacement for the one our school district supplies, really took off last year. It's features included a GPA Calculator, enhanced notifications on grade changes and a much cleaner/snappier interface. When the two districts supported simultaneously changed their grading system over the summer, the project was put on hiatus. QuickHAC relied on [Gradespeed](http://www.schoolnet.com/pdf/brochures/pearson-gradespeed.pdf) which both AISD and RISD used last year. Our project this week was to start the process of bringing QuickHac back for AISD students.
{% include image.html url="/blog/media/2014-09-02-a-new-start/network.jpg" width="100%" description="A new version of QuickHAC that was in development" %}

##Rewriting for TEAMS
Our main task this week was preparing to rewrite the chrome/android apps provided by the QuickHac team. Pending the release of Android L (the next version of Android which brings major UI overhauls) we plan to rewrite the Android app. Afterwords, we will look to rewrite the Chrome app as we move forward with our plans for a release late this year. Once this project is done, I hope to go back to working on GameHost. It's got a lot of potential and is a really fun project to work on.
