---
layout: post
title: "Web Apps 2"
quote: Google App Engine
image: /blog/media/2014-10-18-Web-Apps-2/header.png
video: false
---

#HTTP Post and GET in Google App Engine
##Overview
Google App Engine has a unique handling of HTTP POST and GET requests that it receives when a user accesses a project created on the service. The Python framework makes use of a library called [webapp2](https://webapp-improved.appspot.com/) to handle networking and interface with the Python code. To setup the networking library, you pass the framework (via the WSGIApplication method) an array of paths and handlers. These value pairs serve to tell the webapp2 framework which handler it should invoke when a certain path is requested by a client. Next, you define each of these handlers as a Python class, making sure to include a post and get method which are automatically called as needed by webapp2 with the relevant request information.
##POST vs GET
HTTP GET requests are by far the most common type that exist on the internet today. Simply put, whenever your browser loads a page, it made an HTTP GET request to the website in question and received the page back. HTTP GET requests can even be used to transmit variables, commonly encoded by a ? following the site url and a list of variables in the format of "name"="value"& and repeated for as many variables as are needed. These key/value pairs must be first run through a process called "url encoding" where any special characters not normally allowed in urls (such as brackets and spaces) are turned into special codes which can be decoded on the server side back into the correct string. Critically, the defining feature of HTTP GET requests is that they can ONLY ever request data, nothing else. 

HTTP POST requests are the most common way to transmit data from a client to a server, particularly for sensitive data (passwords) or extremely long data (files). They must also be urlencoded as HTTP GET requests must, but are sent in the body of the HTTP requests rather than in the actual url, hiding them from the browser user in most cases. They are often used in conjunction with the html form element to submit logins or registration information to a server, or to upload a file to a website. 