---
layout: post
title: "Web Apps 3"
quote: Google App Engine
image: /blog/media/2014-11-16-Web-Apps-3/header.png
video: false
---

#Databases in Google App Engine
##Overview
Google App Engine Datastore is a NoSQL database which specializes in scalability and reliability with a custom sql-like query language, GQL (Google Query Language). The Datastore by default is dubbed "High Replication" meaning the database is synced across multiple Google datacenters for maximum uptime and reliablity. The Datastore stores "entities" which are similar to rows in a traditional SQL database and hold multiple "properties", key-value pairs that are similar to column values in an SQL database. Each entity is defined as belogning to a "kind" which serves as a model for multiple entities (like a table in SQL) and a "key" which serves as a uuid (universally unique identifier) for the entity in the Datastore. 

##Interacting with a Datastore
###Storing data
Each "kind" is represented as a model in Python. The model defines the name of the "kind" as well as the properties associated with it. Then, Python code can instantiate the model and create an entity in the database, such as like this:
<div class="highlight"><pre><code class="python">
e = Employee(name="John",
             role="manager",
             email=users.get_current_user().email())
e.hire_date = datetime.datetime.now().date()
e.put()
</code></pre></div>
###Retrieving Data
In Google Datastore, GQL is used to retrieve data. GQL is very similar to SQL, and governs how programs, particularly Python in the case of Google App Engine, interact with the Datastore. To access the data, GQL Syntax is employed which uses SELECT and WHERE statements to request specific sets of data from the server. An example of a simple request is here:
<div class="highlight"><pre><code class="sql">
SELECT * FROM Person WHERE name = "bob"
</code></pre></div>
This code selects all properties (*) from entities in "Person" where the entity name is "bob". It would then return these resulting entities (or 0 entities for no matches) in the form of an array to Python code. Let's look at another example which requests more complicated data:
<div class="highlight"><pre><code class="sql">
SELECT * FROM Person WHERE name="bob" ORDER BY age DESC LIMIT 3
</code></pre></div>
We see our original query, but there's a bit extra added on! "ORDER BY age DESC" allows us to order the resulting rows by age in decending order. "LIMIT 3" limit's the query to the first 3 results that match the WHERE clause "name="bob"". For a more complete tutorial of GQL see [here](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/python/datastore/gqlreference).